Hello and welcome back to the course in
R programming. Today we're going to
have the project brief and we're going
to download the data set. So what is a
project this time? The project is a
demographic analysis, very interesting
let's see what we've got here. You are
employed as a data scientist by the
world bank and you are working on a
project to analyze the world's
demographic trends. You are required to
produce a scatter plot illustrating
birth rate and internet usage statistics
by country. The scatterplot needs to also
be categorized by country's income
groups.
Ok interesting, very interesting
combination they're trying to analyze
birth rate and internet usage so soon
what will that lead to? Does is there any
dependency there? Is there any
correlation? What you think? Alright
we'll find out in this section,
so where do we get the data set for the
section? Well just like usually, we need
to go to www.superdatascience.com/rcourse
one word and here if you scroll down
to section 5, data frames and
then the file you download is called
demographic data and this one over here
it's a CSV file. Also you can download
the section 5 a challenge if you like
that the presentation that we went
through just now and also there's
another file but you don't need it just
yet. You can download it but don't open it
yet we will look at it later on. Alright
so what's this demographic data? The
demographic data is a CSV file and the
CSV stands for comma separated values
and all it is is just data in text
format separated by comma so i opened it
with excel and if you don't have excel
that's okay you can open it was just a
text editor that's totally fine and you
will see pretty much the same thing. A
good text editor is notepad + +, but
otherwise excel is good. So here we've
got five columns, country name, country
code, birth rate, internet users and income
group. So what we need to visualize is
these two in a scatter plot and also
categorize it by the income group of
that country. We don't really care that
much about the country name
and the country code because it is kind
of like a statistical approach so we're
not analyzing individual countries we
want to see the overall trend, what's
going on in the world that's what the
World Bank is about about analyzing
these stats and seeing what kind of
things are going on in the world right
now what trends there are. Now what is what do
these numbers mean?
Well birth rate so let's start with internet
users. It's a bit easier, it's basically the
percentage of people using internet in
that country, so how many out of a
hundred people have access to internet?
78%, 78.9% in Aruba, 5.9%
in Afghanistan, 19.1% in Angola and
so on and this data is for 2012 because
that's the latest that the world bank
had for all of these combined statistics
and birthrate. Well, it's a bit more
complicated but in essence in order like
the general description of birth-rate.
This statistic is that if you take a
thousand people in this country for
instance in Argentina how many new
people will be born in that same country
in that in one year?
So in that year and it's measured
somewhere mid-year so that there's some
more specifics to it but basically
that's a the main idea that you take a
thousand people and per thousand people
how many new people are born in that
country and so basically if you add on
any migration like people immigrating
into the country and emigrating out of the
country then that will give you the
change in population for you but all we are
interested in here is birth rate. So
basically want to see if there's any
dependency or association between birth
rate and internet users as they like any
visible correlation that we'll see on the
chart. So that's what we'll be doing in
this section of the course and we'll get
started right away in the next tutorial.
I look forward to seeing you there and
until next time, happy coding.